.TH "lenskit\-predict" "1" "" "2.1" "LensKit"
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]lenskit predict\f[] \- predict user ratings of items.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]lenskit\f[] [GLOBAL OPTIONS] \f[B]predict\f[] [OPTIONS]
\f[I]USER\f[] \f[I]ITEM\f[]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]predict\f[] command predicts a user\[aq]s ratings for some
items.
It loads a recommender from a trained model file and/or LensKit
configuration scripts and uses the configured algorithm to produce
rating predictions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[I]USER\f[]
The user ID for whom to generate predictions.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[I]ITEM\f[]
An item ID to predict for.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage help.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-m \f[I]FILE\f[], \-\-model\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Load a trained recommender engine from \f[I]FILE\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-c \f[I]SCRIPT\f[], \-\-config\-file \f[I]SCRIPT\f[]
Configure the recommender using \f[I]SCRIPT\f[].
This option can be specified multiple times, and later configurations
take precedence over earlier ones.
If \f[C]\-\-model\-file\f[] is also specified, the scripts are used to
modify the trained model.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-print\-channel \f[I]CHAN\f[]
In addition to rating predictions, also print the value in side channel
\f[I]CHAN\f[].
.RS
.RE
.SS Input Data Options
.PP
This command can read data in several different ways.
To give the rating prediction process some data to work with, one of the
following mutually\-exclusive options must be present:
.TP
.B \-\-ratings\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Read ratings from the delimited text file \f[I]FILE\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-csv\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Read ratings from the CSV file \f[I]FILE\f[].
This is identical to passing \f[C]\-\-ratings\-file=FILE\f[] with
\f[C]\-\-delimiter=,\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-tsv\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Read ratings from the tab\-separated file \f[I]FILE\f[].
This is identical to passing \f[C]\-\-ratings\-file=FILE\f[] with
\f[C]\-\-delimiter=^I\f[], but doesn\[aq]t require you to know how to
encode tab characters in your shell.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-pack\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Read ratings from the packed rating file \f[I]FILE\f[].
Packed files can be created with the \f[B]pack\-ratings\f[] command.
.RS
.RE
.PP
Additionally, the following options provide additional control over the
data input:
.TP
.B \-d \f[I]DELIM\f[], \-\-delimiter \f[I]DELIM\f[]
Use \f[I]DELIM\f[] as the delimiter for delimited text files.
Only effective in conjunction with \f[C]\-\-ratings\-file\f[].
.RS
.RE
.SS Script Environment Options
.PP
This command takes the standard LensKit script environment options for
controlling how configuration scripts are interpreted:
.TP
.B \-C \f[I]URL\f[], \-\-classpath \f[I]URL\f[]
Add \f[I]URL\f[] (which can be a path to a local directory or JAR file)
to the classpath for loading the configuration scripts.
This URL can contain additional components for the recommenders.
This option can be specified multiple times to add multiple locations to
the classpath.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-D \f[I]PROP\f[]=\f[I]VALUE\f[], \-\-define
\f[I]PROP\f[]=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Define the property \f[I]PROP\f[] to equal \f[I]VALUE\f[].
This option is currently ignored for this command.
To set Java system properties, use the \f[C]JAVA_OPTS\f[] environment
variable (see \f[B]lenskit\f[](1)).
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]lenskit\f[](1)
.SH PROJECT INFORMATION
.PP
This command is a part of LensKit, an open source recommender systems
toolkit developed by GroupLens Research (http://grouplens.org).
Copyright 2010\-2014 Regents of the University of Minnesota and
contributors.
.PP
Work on LensKit has been funded by the National Science Foundation under
grants IIS 05\-34939, 08\-08692, 08\-12148, and 10\-17697.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110\-1301, USA.
