.TH "lenskit\-graph" "1" "" "2.1" "LensKit"
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]lenskit graph\f[] \- produce a GraphViz diagram of a recommender
configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]lenskit\f[] [GLOBAL OPTIONS] \f[B]graph\f[] [OPTIONS]
\f[I]CONFIGS\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[I]graph\f[] command loads a LensKit algorithm configuration from
one or more configuration files and produces a visualization of the
resulting object graph.
This visualization is in GraphViz DOT format, suitable for rendering
with \f[I]dot\f[](1).
Visualizing recommender configurations is often ueful for debugging
configurations and making sure they produce the objects you expect.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[I]CONFIG\f[]
A Groovy script containing a LensKit algorithm file in the LensKit
configuration DSL.
If there are multiple configurations, the are passed in order to
\f[C]LenskitRecommenderEngineBuilder\f[], so later configurations
override earlier ones.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print usage help.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-o \f[I]FILE\f[], \-\-output\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Write the GraphViz file to \f[I]FILE\f[].
The default output file is \f[C]recommender.dot\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-domain \f[I]SPEC\f[]
Use the preference domain \f[I]SPEC\f[] as the preference domain in the
configuration.
\f[I]SPEC\f[] is of the form [\f[I]LOW\f[],\f[I]HIGH\f[]]/\f[I]PREC\f[];
the precision (and slash) can be omitted for continuously valued
ratings.
As an example, ‘[0.5,5.0]/0.5' will be a domain from 0.5 to 5.0 stars
with a granularity of 1/2 star.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-model\-file \f[I]FILE\f[]
Load a pre\-trained model from \f[I]FILE\f[].
In this mode, the configurations are applied as modifications to the
model rather than used to build a graph from scratch.
The mdoel file can be compressed.
.RS
.RE
.SS Script Environment Options
.PP
This command takes the standard LensKit script environment options for
controlling how configuration scripts are interpreted:
.TP
.B \-C \f[I]URL\f[], \-\-classpath \f[I]URL\f[]
Add \f[I]URL\f[] (which can be a path to a local directory or JAR file)
to the classpath for loading the configuration scripts.
This URL can contain additional components for the recommenders.
This option can be specified multiple times to add multiple locations to
the classpath.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-D \f[I]PROP\f[]=\f[I]VALUE\f[], \-\-define
\f[I]PROP\f[]=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Define the property \f[I]PROP\f[] to equal \f[I]VALUE\f[].
This option is currently ignored for this command.
To set Java system properties, use the \f[C]JAVA_OPTS\f[] environment
variable (see \f[B]lenskit\f[](1)).
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]lenskit\f[](1)
.SH PROJECT INFORMATION
.PP
This command is a part of LensKit, an open source recommender systems
toolkit developed by GroupLens Research (http://grouplens.org).
Copyright 2010\-2014 Regents of the University of Minnesota and
contributors.
.PP
Work on LensKit has been funded by the National Science Foundation under
grants IIS 05\-34939, 08\-08692, 08\-12148, and 10\-17697.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110\-1301, USA.
